Title
I WAS 19
Subtitle
The story of one young man’s struggle against the favoritism and destructive leadership within the U.S.
Army during the Afghan War.
CHAPTER 1: ORIGINS
I was born on the island of Guam on a couch in the Fujita Hotel. The entire hotel staff knew that
my mom was expecting, and they loved that a baby was going to be born on their property. When I
popped out, we all bonded like one giant family. I’m so glad I wasn’t named “Fujita.”
At the time, our family—my father, my mother, and my older brother—were living at the hotel,
but we soon moved to a partially-gated, four-bedroom condominium, complete with a community
swimming pool. It was amazing. Everyone had separate rooms, food was always available, and my
clothes were never hand-me-downs. My brother and I hung out all the time, and my father and I laughed
as we went on adventures together. He was my best friend. My parents loved each other, and we were a
close family. Life was good.
Then everything changed.
When I was a teenager, my father lost his job. I think it was a huge hit to his identity as a man,
especially a Japanese man, when my mom was forced to support our family. He got really, really
depressed and started disengaging from all of us. We didn’t laugh anymore, and our close-knit family
started to crumble. I turned to food to escape from everything that was going on, and my weight
ballooned out of control. My mom’s salary wasn’t enough to pay the mortgage, so we had to move out
of our lovely condo into an apartment a quarter of the size.
One day, my father flew to Japan for a potential job. He returned about a week later, handed my
brother $200, and told him to give the money to Mom. Then he grabbed his luggage and walked out the
door. As he was leaving, I asked him to bring me a gift when he returned. His back cast a shadow on the
ground as I waved goodbye.
I never saw him again. I was 13.
Suddenly, there was no one to protect me. Mom was working hard to feed two boys and keep a
roof over our heads, and my brother was more focused on his friends. He didn’t want me following him
around. No one was there to save me from bullies. No one was there to teach me how to shave, or how
to behave, or how to treat a girl. I had no one to look up to.
There’s a powerful scene in Men of Honor when Carl Brashear leaves his family to join the Navy.
His father bluntly tells him, “Don’t quit on me ... ever!” Suddenly it clicked: I couldn’t focus on the past. I
needed to concentrate on the future and how my choices in the present could change my destiny. I
looked in the mirror and told myself, I’m better than my father. I will surpass him in every way I know
how. I will be the type of father he never could be. So, what was slowing me down? What could I change?
How could I better myself? What could I control? I thought for a moment and the answer came to me:
my weight! What a simple answer. I needed to find out what was making me fat. Then, I needed to
exercise.
After doing some research, I discovered my kryptonite: soda! I knew it was hard to stop
suddenly, so I substituted soda with flavored sparkling water that I was able to buy for a dollar. Success! I
eventually was able to trick my brain into thinking that I was swallowing sweet, sweet, soda. Next up:
exercise! The only exercise I knew about was running, so I started creating a running route every day. No
matter the weather, no matter how physically, mentally, or emotionally exhausted I was, I pushed till the
end. At first, I could only manage to jog for two minutes before I felt like puking, but I knew that if I
stopped and turned back, I would give up completely. I made sure to choose a route where it would have
taken longer for me to turn around at the halfway point rather than to go forward.

Still, even with all the running, I wasn’t seeing any results. I needed something more: basketball!
I started playing in high school—and I sucked. I was fat, slow, and couldn’t even dribble or shoot. I still
remember the first game I played. I had the opportunity to take a shot and got the ball stuck between
the rim and the backboard. The next day at practice, my coach yelled at me in front of the whole team:
“Maybe if you opened your eyes, you would haven’t gotten the ball stuck!”
Everyone in the gym laughed at me. But I wasn’t about to crawl in a hole and feel sorry for
myself. I told myself to use those words as constructive criticism and to get better so that I would be the
one laughing last. When I graduated high school, I hugged my coach with tears in my eyes because of the
impact his words made on my life. They were fuel.
Eventually, I realized that I needed a really big dream that I could break down into smaller, more
manageable, achievable goals in order to make the bigger dream attainable. One day, I got my mom,
aunt, and uncle together and told them I wanted to be an NBA player like Michael Jordan. They all
laughed and mocked me. Not even the best basketball player in Japan could make it to the NBA, they
said, let alone some random fat kid in Guam who didn’t even know how to play the game. But I wasn’t
giving up. I was a kid on a mission...a kid trying to fulfill a dream...a kid making his own path to success! I
was 14.
Spalding used to make a basketball that had a built-in pump, and it was amazing. My mom
bought one for my older brother, but she wouldn’t buy one for me. After feeding her children, her
priority had become drinking and smoking. They were expensive habits, and I was the younger brother,
so I was stuck with making the best of what was already bought for my brother. After all, my mom
explained, my older brother was talented, smart, and good-looking, so she would rather invest in him
than the stupid, talent-less, ugly duckling I was. When that sweet basketball finally got handed down to
me, it was so old that I needed to pump it for 15 minutes just to get five minutes of play before it would
deflate.
But it didn’t matter. Even if I only could only get two minutes of play, I was determined. I was
dedicated. I was focused. I jogged to my school's gym on the weekend to work on my dribbling, my
shots, and my cardio. I was the only one there, but I imagined a huge crowd of people chanting my
name. I read that Michael Jackson wasn’t the most talented of his siblings but that he just worked harder
than them. He did have the talent, but he worked hard to achieve what talent alone couldn’t reach. I, on
the other hand, didn’t have any God-given talent—but I knew that if I worked harder than anyone, my
hard work would surpass everyone else’s talent. Little by little, I got better than the people around me. I
got faster. My shots were falling. I was making progress. While it took me almost two years, I went from
190 lbs. at 5’3” to 140 lbs. at 5’8” with six-pack abs!
While I was out discovering what type of man I could become, Mom was on a quest to make it to
the top of the food chain in a male-driven workforce. Problem was, she forgot what she was fighting for
—us. I remember night after night of missed basketball games, uncooked dinners, and missed
“goodnights” and “I love yous.” Instead, she would come home drunk and crawling on the floor with no
shoes on, screaming for me to help change her since she was too drunk to do it herself. One time, a
police officer knocked on our door at midnight telling us that a drunk lady with no shoes had hit a car
while driving and drove off. The car’s description fit my mom’s vehicle. I assured the officer that my
mother was in the house sleeping and that I couldn’t help him out. I closed the doors and thought, am I
the child, or is she? Drinking and driving?? Seriously? I was 16.
My brother finished high school, and my Mom sent him to Los Angeles for better opportunities.
Our old place was now too big for the shrinking family, she said, so we moved to a smaller place with
cheaper rent. It also gave her more money to feed her addictions. I was about eight months away from
graduating high school myself and was thinking about my own future. I still wanted to be an NBA player,
but I knew I had no real chance of getting recruited. I had to think of another way to make that dream
become a reality. I devised a plan to go out to Los Angeles also and try out for a junior college team to
potentially work my way up.

My mom heard about the idea and said, “Hayato, I don’t have money for you to go to Los
Angeles. You need to stay here in Guam and go to college.”
I wanted to yell, “It’s your fault for using all the money on beer and tobacco! What the fuck,
Mom!!” Instead, I politely asked her why my brother could live in L.A. but not me.
“Let's face it, Hayato,” she replied. “What are you going to accomplish in Los Angeles? Plus, I
don't have any money for you to fly out there.”
I was crushed, but I had a serious girlfriend at the time—I couldn’t make any irrational decisions.
I needed to think about how to best provide for the both of us. One day I had the answer: I could join the
military, like Carl Brashear in Men of Honor! I mean, they’d pay for my training, pay for my housing, and
pay me to leave Guam! Win, win, win!
I told Young, my best friend, that I was going to join the military and get the hell away from
Guam and my mom. “Take me with you!” he said. The next day, we both marched down to the Navy
recruiters, the Marine recruiters, and finally the Army recruiters. The Army was the only branch that gave
us actual job descriptions, so we decided to enlist with them.
The Army recruiters tested us for our vocational aptitude then helped us decide what type of job
to choose. At this point, all I could think about was how cool I would look with a camouflaged face
carrying a rifle. It was a simple choice for me: infantry! I wanted to proudly serve my country on the
battlefield like Lieutenant Dan from Forrest Gump. As I signed my life away, the recruiter stopped me and
asked if I would like Airborne School in my contract.
“What is it?” I asked.
“Well,” he said, “you jump out of perfectly good airplanes to parachute down to the enemy
battlefront!”
Hell yes! I signed on the dotted line and swore my life away to the government. When I got back
home, the first thing I did was to tell my mother that she didn’t need to support me anymore. She was in
awe and disbelief when I told her the news.
“Why do you need to join?” she asked. “Do you want to die?! Are you trying to kill me? How
come you didn’t tell me you were planning this?”
“Because I’m eighteen,” I firmly said, “and I am a man that needs to pave his own way rather
than depend on his parents!” She started crying and knew she had lost a son.
Young and I were each told that we were Battle Buddies, meaning that we would stick together
in the Army as a way of boosting morale. However, when we got our actual orders, Young’s departure
dates were a day behind mine, even though we had both been given the same departure dates weeks
ago. Guam was one day and a couple of hours ahead of the U.S., which was why my recruiter had
screwed up the paperwork. His error meant I would potentially not be able to process the same time as
Young. I was upset.
Regardless, after months of mentally preparing myself by watching Full Metal Jacket and Men of
Honor, the day finally came: the day of departure. The day of cries and goodbyes. The day I began my
journey into the real world. During the weeks leading up to my departure, my mom had bought me new
clothes and shoes, and she put everything in a luggage bag the size of Mt. Everest. I told Young I’d look
for him at Ft. Benning. I hugged my other best friend, Royce. I said goodbye to my beloved girlfriend as
she handed me a letter I was only supposed to read when I was in the air.
After boarding the plane and finding my seat, I sat down and open the letter. My girlfriend wrote
of how much she loved me, how much she would miss me, and—wait, what??! She was asking me to
marry her! I wanted to cry and leave the plane but couldn’t. We were on our way to Georgia.
CHAPTER 2: BASIC TRAINING
When we landed in Honolulu on a layover, I immediately called my girlfriend. The hour-long
conversation flew by. I asked if she truly wanted to get married. She did. I asked her to wait four months
until I could return as a new recruit with Class As to get her father’s blessing.

“Yes,” she said, “I am willing to wait for you, no matter what.”
I was a man on a mission. I was ready to conquer the world. And this time, I was willing to risk
my life so that I can start a family with my girlfriend.
After changing planes in Atlanta and almost getting lost in the massive terminals, I finally arrived
at a small airport in Columbus, Georgia. The first person I saw at that airport was a staff sergeant lining
people up for the Army.
“Raise your hand if you are going to Airborne School,” he barked.
I raised mine. After all, my recruiter told me Airborne School was in my contract.
As we drove toward Ft. Benning, the scenery around me looked just like the military movies I’d
watched growing up. The base’s 250-foot jump tower was iconic. I wasn’t dreaming anymore—I was
actually in a military base, about to become a soldier!
In the movies, when new recruits step off the bus, a bunch of drill sergeants rush at them, calling
them worthless and weak and yelling how the Army will destroy them. In reality, there was just a cadre
calling out people’s names—except for mine. Once everyone started getting issued linens, I told the
cadres that I was supposed to be there.
“What do you mean?” they asked. “Were you not called during roll call?”
“No sir. And I believe I’m supposed to be attending basic training.”
They looked at me with confusion and told me to report to the cadre office.
Inside the office, I stood in front of a desk while a massive man as jacked as Arnold
Schwarzenegger called me into his office.
“What are you supposed to be doing?” he asked.
“Um, I believe I was supposed to report for basic training.”
“Okay, grab your stuff and wait outside for me.”
“Yes sir!”
After 15 minutes, he came and personally drove me out to the 30th Adjutant General Battalion.
He dropped me off and said, “Good luck, kid.”
When I arrived at 30th AG, I had to wait until there were enough recruits for everyone to be
processed at once. Because I arrived about a day after my orders said I was supposed to get there,
everyone was afraid that I had gone AWOL—absent without leave. I constantly looked for Young and
hoped that he was one of the recruits arriving that day, but he wasn’t there.
My whole intake process took about five days, but it can be from two weeks to a month before a
recruit actually starts basic training. The 30th AG is basically a preparation center. I got my identification,
my uniform, a whole bunch of shots, and a forced haircut that I had to pay for. They shaved it bald, and
they didn’t particularly care if they ripped some of it out.
The next day, I glanced at the line of recruits waiting to get their hair chopped off and I saw
Young! He was standing there wearing some sexy, standard-issue Birth Control Glasses. I tried to call out
his name without drawing too much attention, but he was so depressed that he didn’t hear me. He was
about to lose all his long hair that took ages for him to grow. I was just relieved that he made it there
safely. I still didn’t know if we’d be in separate companies.
After about two weeks of waiting, we finally were able to start basic training. We boarded some
nondescript white buses carrying about two duffle bags’ worth of military gear per person, along with
one personal item. We arrived at Sand Hill and the mental game began. The buses drove around the site
four or five times to disorient us, then they stopped. Drill sergeants immediately swarmed the buses.
“GET OFF MY BUS! MOVE YOUR ASSES! LET’S GO, PRIVATES!”
I guess the movies were right after all. They harassed us and tried to break us mentally,
physically, and emotionally, but the yelling didn’t bother me much. What bothered me was the insane
amount of crap my mom gave me on top of the gear I already had.
Some of the lucky recruits were told to run around the track before they could even come up to
the company area. I happened to be one of them. One guy saw me struggling with my luggage and was
nice enough to carry it for me. When everyone was finally on the company grounds, the drill sergeants

quickly separated us into our respective platoons. I looked around and saw that Young was there but was
placed in the third platoon. I was in the fourth.
One phone call, one minute: that’s all you got in the barracks. I called my girlfriend.
“I love you!” I said, “I miss you! I made it to basic training and from here on out I can only write
to you, so here’s the address and I hope to hear back from you.”
Click. Next!
If you didn’t finish in sixty seconds, the drill sergeant finished it for you.
My girlfriend’s soothing voice made me want to break down and cry, but I told myself that I
wasn’t a kid anymore. Being there was for the greater good for our future family. It was time for me to
take everything I had and put it on the line. I couldn’t lose, not now. I couldn’t give up. I couldn’t stop.
The world wouldn’t stop just because I was struggling, and it sure wouldn’t give a damn if I cried.
My first real experience as a soldier was our first ruck march. My heavy pack in the humid
weather made me feel like I was in a hot sauna, and my boots weren’t broken in. It was only about a
three-mile hike, but I’d never worn boots in my life and it was hell on my feet. I got quarter-sized blisters
everywhere and the pus seeped out while marching.
My backpack, or rucksack, was full of clothes, a blanket called a woobie, and four liters of water.
A little bit of gear can easily add five pounds, and the rucksack, body armor, helmet, weapon, and
terrible boots made for an awful experience. The drill sergeants know this. It’s designed to break you.
During one of our patrol stops, I almost had a mental breakdown, but I didn’t want to be a loser. I
couldn’t! So I drank some water and told myself that we were almost there. Suddenly, Eminem clicked
into my head:
'Cause sometimes you just feel tired, you feel weak,
And when you feel weak you feel like you want to just give up,
But you gotta search within you, you gotta find that inner strength
And just pull that shit out of you and get that motivation to not give up
And not be a quitter, no matter how bad you want to just fall flat on your face and collapse!
To reach a perfect score in physical training, or PT, you had to perform 71 pushups or above, 65
sit-ups or above, and run two miles under 13 minutes. Each category has a score designated for the age
group, the amount of exercise performed, and the time elapsed. For my first PT test I did 60 pushups, 97
sit ups, and finished my two-mile run in 12.5 minutes. It wasn’t good enough for a perfect score, and my
drill sergeant made sure I knew I was close.
“KAMOHARA!”
“Yes, Drill Sergeant?”
“If you’re not first, you’re last!”
It was simple, direct, and got me fired up.
“HOOAAHH! Whoever is currently number one in the company better watch their ass because
I’m coming for that spot!”
The company held four PT tests spread throughout basic training so that any stragglers who
didn’t pass the first test could improve and pass one later. I wanted to be the best. I knew that I was
weak at pushups, so I would challenge myself to do 100 pushups every day before I slept. Even at night,
after the drill sergeant killed the lights, I was still doing pushups. Meanwhile, my girlfriend was sending
me letters every week that drove me forward.
Then, one week, the letters stopped. They had been getting shorter and shorter, but this time,
nothing came at all. I felt lost and confused. Were she and I finished? I was scared. How would I possibly
know? There were no phone calls, no internet, and no webcams at basic training. It was like jail except
with no phone calls. The only telephones were located downstairs past the drill sergeant and only
accepted phone cards, not quarters. Unless you knew how to acquire a phone card and bypass the drill
sergeant, it was like attempting murder in broad daylight.
Finally, the Dear John letter arrived. It basically said, “I’m over you and I hope you have a
wonderful life.” It was two pages long, but it didn’t need to be. For the next few nights, I cried in the

restroom stall and tried to make it seem like I was taking a crap. If I stopped basic training now, I knew
that I would never be able to face myself in the future. I had to go on. I was 18.
We had about five weeks left of basic training, and our final PT test was around the corner. I
hadn’t reached 300 points yet, and this was my last opportunity to put up or shut up. I was going to hit
that score. I finished with 71 pushups, 96 sit ups, and two miles under 12.5 minutes. I did it! I made it! I
succeeded! But was I the best?
I wasn’t. I’d lost the number one spot by one pushup and was a whole 10 seconds slower than
the best time. If you’re not first, you’re last kept ringing in my head as a reminder that someone out
there was working harder than me. I grabbed my boots. I didn’t intend to lose anymore. I’d outwork
anyone.
When Young and I finished basic training, we got some of our freedom back at Airborne
holdover. It was basically a cheap hotel. We could make as many phone calls as they allowed, and we
could buy candy at the store. As we left Sand Hill for Airborne school, we looked around and saw how
small the base actually was. I noticed the drill sergeants swarming buses as the new, miserable-looking
recruits arrived. Nostalgia hit me for a moment, then I turned my eyes toward the future.
CHAPTER 3: AIRBORNE
Stand up, hook up, shuffle to the door! Jump right out, and count to four!
The first thing I did upon arriving at Airborne School was to buy new boots and a buttload of
candy. Then Young and I went to town on some fast food. I felt like a millionaire with all the money we
saved up from Basic Training. We only had about $2,000 but we felt like kings! Young and I were also
placed in the same Airborne group, or “chalk,” which really helped us get through school. The cadres
constantly reminded us that only 80% of recruits would come out unscathed while the rest would be
injured or killed. Fortunately, no one died while we were there.
At the beginning of training, we practiced jumping off a 25-foot tower that mimicked what it
would feel like to jump from a C-31 airplane. One day, I came across an Air Force tech sergeant who had
a fear of heights. I couldn’t figure out why the hell she applied to be a paratrooper. When her chalk was
up to jump off the tower, she froze by the door and held the line behind her. The jumpmaster came
around, told her to cross her arms behind her butt, then BAM, he kicked her off the platform like
Leonidas in 300. The cadres below were shouting, “I can’t hear your four-thousand count, Airborne!” I
felt bad for her chalk, since the first one out the door is usually the leader of the chalk. If the leader
freaks out, the whole chalk usually does too.
After weeks of training and practicing our parachute landing falls, Young and I were given a flight
date. To graduate, we had to complete at least five jumps over the course of 3-5 days, depending on
weather conditions. Every day, the cadres created a roster of which individuals would jump, and which
chalks would stay behind to shake the parachutes free of debris after the jumps. One evening while our
chalk was waiting for chute shakeout, I heard a voice yell behind me.
“Hey private, fix your fucking P.C.!”
“Roger that, Sergeant,” I said, adjusting my patrol cap.
“What the fuck did you just call me? I’m a master chief! You better call me by my rank, boy!”
I turned around and just looked at him like he was stupid. How was I supposed to know what
rank he was when I couldn’t even see him? Now that I was looking at him, I noticed he wasn’t even in
the Army—he was in the Navy! He was just pissed off because he had to do chute shakeout with all the
lower-ranking people like me. Apparently, enough power and rank made him feel exempt from doing
grunt work.
Fortunately, a cadre saw the commotion and told the master chief to calm down, grab an MRE,
and finish the detail. Airborne School didn’t give people special treatment based on rank. We were
taught that all people were to be treated equally, regardless of rank. Everyone was simply a recruit, and
we were all held to the same standard.

When Young and I finished our chute shakeout at 8 p.m., the cadres told us we’d be woken up at
3 a.m. to prepare for the next flight. After getting back to our quarters, we bought some food at the
shoppette and went straight to bed.
It felt like five seconds later when we were woken up. Still half asleep and exhausted, it was hard
staying awake while the plane was prepped. We got rigged up to jump but we were told that if we fell
asleep, we’d be volunteered for chute shakeout again. No way was I doing that. Young and I started to
punch, elbow, and kick each other when we started nodding off to keep us awake. Genius.
“Roster number four two zero: chute shakeout!”
I startled awake. Crap. Young must have forgotten to hit me. Who the hell was 420? Wait...no,
no...it was me!
I swear, that evening had triple the amount of chutes to clean. I finished at midnight and was
woken up again at 3 a.m. just to wait the 3-5 hours for the plane to get prepped. I felt like a zombie.
Young and I were still hitting each other because I was nodding off every five seconds.
Suddenly I heard footsteps running toward me.
“Roster number four two zero: chute shakeout!”
Fuck!!!
After Young and I made our five successful Airborne jumps, we finally graduated and got our
wings. Now it was time to pack up and move out to our actual unit. One day, the cadres asked all the
graduates if anyone wanted to join Ranger School. I was faced with a major decision: apply for Ranger
School or go home to Guam with Young to enjoy a nice, long vacation. Young had been my best friend
since fourth grade. We grew up together, graduated together, and joined the military together. I couldn’t
ditch my friend.
Before we flew back to Guam, an Airborne cadre showed us our new duty stations. Young, along
with probably 80% of the other graduates, were to be stationed in Ft. Bragg, North Carolina. However, I
was to be stationed at Ft. Campbell, Kentucky, home of the Screaming Eagles. Young and I were sad to
hear that we would be separated, so it only seemed fit to fly back to our motherland for one last hurrah.
Since we were too young to drink in the States, we just worked out at the gym while we waited for our
flight.
After four months of grueling training, four months of non-stop people in your face, and four
months of eating MREs, we finally returned home. Our parents met us and took us out to all our favorite
restaurants. The drinking age in Guam was just 18 and neither of us had major financial responsibilities,
so we were like two arsonists with a can of gasoline and a lit match. Once we deployed, we knew we
could die, so we raged at night and lavished tons of booze on our friends.
Young and I often visited Anderson Air Force Base in Guam to use their gym. One day, we went
into a shoppette and I saw my ex-girlfriend who had sent me the Dear John letter in basic training. We
both looked at each other for about three seconds. I didn’t know what to do, so I just stood there and
waved.
Eventually, my last day in Guam came. Young and I flew from Guam to Atlanta together, but
there we had to separate. It was really hard to leave my best friend—the only person I could trust with
anything. I felt responsible for his actions; I didn’t want to see my brother-from-another-mother die. But
another journey was about to start, and I had to change my mindset. This was where the real Army
started.
CHAPTER 4: FT. CAMPBELL
From Atlanta, I landed in Nashville, Tennessee and was told to go straight to the USO and grab a
bus for the hour-long ride down to Ft. Campbell. As I was looking for my luggage, a group of people
stopped me and asked where I was headed. They told me they were also going to Ft. Campbell and
asked me if I wanted a ride. I reluctantly accepted.

When we arrived, they were nice enough to guide me through the base, and they drove me to
the holdover location for Permanent Change of Station individuals. The whole process of transitioning
from one duty station to another took around 1-2 weeks. I was headed to 4th Brigade, 2nd Battalion,
506th Infantry (the famous Currahee from Band of Brothers), Whiskey Company (formerly Delta
Company), 1st Platoon, 1st Squad.
When I arrived at Whiskey Company, I was introduced to Staff Sergeant Smith.
“What’s your name, Private?
“Kamohara, sir!”
“Okay, Kamora, let’s get you squared away with a barracks room and get you settled in.”
“Sorry sir,” I said, “my name is ‘ka-mo-HA-ra’, not ‘ka-MO-ra.’”
He looked at me with awe and disgust.
“Okay, ka-MO-ra,” he said, flexing his rank.
A first impression isn’t everything, but it sure lasts a long time. I’m pretty sure that Smith would
still call me Kamora to this day while gulping an energy drink as he fell asleep. It was challenging to
follow him as a leader. As a former fueler, his lack of knowing infantry tactics and his inability to make
critical decisions during a firefight was like watching inept chefs flail in front of Gordan Ramsay.
I dropped my gear off in the barracks room and was introduced to my team leader, Specialist
Biziorek. SPC Biziorek was my immediate supervisor, the person I reported to when I needed something.
The first thing he noticed were my Airborne wings.
“You graduated from Airborne School?” he asked.
“Yes, Specialist!”
“What was your PT score?”
“300!
“Okay, well my room is 456 and my phone number is—”
“Phone number?” I interjected. “I don’t have a cell phone. Do I need one?”
Smith and Biziorek were both amazed and wondered why I didn’t have a cell phone. I’d never
had one before and never figured I needed one. Biziorek took me to a Verizon store just outside the base
and I purchased my first cell phone, a Blackberry Storm 2. It looked futuristic, but it didn’t get any
reception in the barracks—no texts, no phone calls, no voicemail. Since I had never owned a cell phone
before, I had no idea nothing was getting through.
One Saturday as I was driving to the nearby mall with some friends, I got a call from SPC Biziorek.
“Hayato, where are you right now?”
“I’m at the mall,” I replied.
“You need to get back on post right now!”
Soldiers were government property, and regular labor laws did not apply. We were on Uncle
Sam’s payroll and were on call 24/7. We were subjugated to regular, daily inspections of our barracks
and, if contacted, had to report to our supervisor as soon as possible. So, I left immediately and arrived
back on base about 30 minutes later to see SPC Biziorek.
“CRAWL!” he yelled.
I looked at him, confused. “What?”
“LOW CRAWL on the floor and mop the floor! You made me wait almost two hours! Did you not
get my text or phone call?”
“Specialist, I did not receive any information to come see you on Saturday, and I don’t have any
reception in my barracks room. How was I supposed to get information when I cannot receive the
information?”
Biziorek replied, “It does not matter if you get reception or not! You should have set up a
voicemail and spoke with your fellow soldiers to find out what was going on.”
I was pissed. After about 15 minutes of mopping the floor with my body, Biziorek told me to
change into my uniform and full kit—body armor, helmet, and rucksack—for a Saturday battlefield
exercise in the barracks parking lot. This was one of the many ways to address a disobedient, back-

talking, insubordinate soldier. I wasn’t any of those things—I just had crappy reception. I took the loss for
Verizon.
Ironically, a similar situation happened with a new guy named Adams who was living with us in
the barracks, even though he had a family, because post housing was full. He also had failed to pick up
his cell phone over the weekend, but he had no excuse except that he had a family. He even told me
once that he never picks up his calls after work. Apparently, rules only applied to certain people.
After two hours of doing tactical maneuvers in the parking lot, low crawling up a small hill
towards the chow hall, and bounding left to right around the barracks building, Biziorek pulled me in and
told me I’d be heading to Air Assault school on Monday. He wanted to make sure I had the proper
packing list and proceeded to inspect my items, making me wash all the gear that had gotten dirty from
my low crawling and bounding. The inspection lasted until midnight, and I was exhausted. After grabbing
a burger with some friends, I called it a night.
When I showed up to Air Assault School on Monday, cadres immediately swarmed me.
“MOVE IT, MOVE IT, LET’S GO!”
“YOU, LOW CRAWL ON THE GROUND!”
Now I knew why Biziorek had been so tough with me. After being shouted into line, I dumped
out my assault pack for inspection. The packing list was very specific. If just one item was missing or
wasn’t standard issue, the student was dismissed from school. Biziorek’s attention to detail saved my
butt. I passed the inspection with flying colors.
After ten days of hands-on training and nine days of classes and tests, at least 40% of the
students had left. The last obstacle was a 12-mile ruck march that had to be finished in under 3 hours
while wearing a helmet, body armor, assault pack, and a tactical vest called a mole. I had only one goal in
mind: to beat an old nemesis, Specialist Kozlowski. He was the company PT stud from all the way back in
basic training, and he just happened to be in AA School with me. Kozlowski had been highly praised for
his physical attributes and effective leadership skills. If I beat him, I was sure some recognition would
come my way.
The march began and I was in first place, but I didn’t pace myself, and I slacked off a lot around
the fourth mile. Kozlowski passed me.
“Come on,” he said, “you can do it! Don’t give up!”
Was he mocking me? Well, challenge accepted. I closed in on him at the eighth mile. Suddenly I
became aware of an Air Force drill sergeant following me.
“Hey kid, you got a lot of heart!” he said.
“Heart?!” I replied. “I want to get this shit over with and beat someone! That's not heart, that’s
dedication.”
I finally caught up to Kozlowski at the tenth mile.
“Come on, you can do it!” I said and finished fifth out of 200.
I was the only graduate of Air Assault at my rank to have earned two badges without any
previous deployment, and leaders didn’t like the idea of a low-ranking private like me looking better than
my superiors. That’s why, the next morning, instead of getting a day or two off like the rest of the
graduates, I got PT.
I woke up to Adams banging on my door. “It’s 5:45—you’re late for PT!” he said.
Shit.
PT formation started at 6:30 a.m., but our company liked to be extra special and have everyone
show up at 5:30. That way, everyone had an hour to show up before they were considered tardy—except
for me, the “new private.” I didn’t have the same rights as the veterans.
I threw my gear on and tried to sneak my way into the company.
“KAMOHARA! DO PUSHUPS!” shouted Biziorek. I was caught.
“Roger that, Specialist!”
I was exhausted from the previous night but dropped and started pushups. Another team leader
from my platoon saw me.

“Kamohara, why are you doing pushups?”
“Well, Specialist, I was late to be early, HOOAAHH!”
“Didn’t you just graduate AA school yesterday? Where’s your day off?”
“I don’t know, Specialist, I was instructed by SPC Biziorek to show for PT today.”
“What?” he asked, incredulous. “That’s some bullshit. Kozlowski got a day off; you should too.
Give me a second, I’ll be back for you.”
“HOOAAHH,” I said, exhausted.
After five minutes, the team leader came back.
“Kamohara, get up. That’s some bull. They should have given you the day off, but the platoon
sergeant says you need some PT in your life.”
“Thank you, Specialist! What doesn’t kill me makes me stronger. HOOAAHH!”
Biziorek would also tell me to pick up smokers’ cigarette butts, and I hated it. I didn’t smoke. I
hated the idea of smoking. Why, then, did I need to pick up butts for smokers? I didn’t see anyone wiping
my ass when I took a shit! I complained to Biziorek, who yelled at me.
“DO AS I SAY, NOT AS I DO! If I tell you to pick it up, then you pick it up!”
“Specialist, if I don’t contribute to the mess, why am I being punished for idiots who can’t police
themselves?”
“DO PUSHUPS!”
“HOOAAHH!”
After pushups, I spotted an advertisement for Ranger School tryouts and asked my PL, the
platoon leader, if he knew more about it.
“Yeah, it’s just a form of PT,” he answered. “They’re doing it so people can see what it would be
like at Ranger School. But don’t worry about it—we’ll be doing it ourselves for PT tomorrow.”
“Roger that, sir! Thank you for the information,” I said. I badly wanted to join Ranger School, but
if attending the tryout wasn’t going to make any difference, what was the point? Besides, my PL told me
he wanted to keep his best men that day to impress the CO—the commander.
After our PT session had ended, I found out my PL was wrong. Anyone who had gotten a decent
PT score at the tryout received a slot in the RASP, the Ranger Assessment Selection Program. I was
enraged with my PL. Weren’t leaders supposed to guide people to success instead of failure?
Soon, the word came in from HQ: we were headed to Afghanistan. This was the real deal. The
entire battalion prepared to head to the Joint Readiness Training Center (JRTC) in Ft. Polk, Louisiana for a
month-long training exercise that mimicked a real deployment. It was meant to test whether our
soldiers, equipment, and leadership was battle-ready.
Upon arriving, we had to lay out our gear in specific arrangements to be inspected by the CO. I
arranged my weapons horizontally, but the leaders wanted it vertically. I changed my layout. Then, they
said to change it back since the entire battalion was arranging weapons horizontally. I changed the layout
almost five times until I was told that the inspection was cancelled because the CO wasn’t coming after
all.
Laying out your personal gear was even worse: if you were missing a pair of undies or socks from
the packing list, you’d have to go to the Post Exchange, or PX, store on base and purchase them. Some
privates would even borrow a buddy’s pair of underwear to use, since having to buy new socks and
underwear at the PX could easily break the bank. Privates made close to minimum wage, and the Army
made sure to squeeze every bit of coin from our pockets for the air we breathed, the food we ate, and
ground we walked on.
Finally, after numerous rounds of laying out our equipment and double-checking everything, we
packed our bags on the Greyhound bus and headed to Ft. Polk. Halfway through the trip, someone
clogged the toilet. Even after the toilet got cleaned at our next stop, the entire bus smelled like a giant
rancid veggie omelet for the next 12 hours until we arrived on base.
Ft. Polk, Louisiana reminded me of Guam: hot, humid, and full of mosquitoes. When we got off
the bus, all lower-ranking soldiers were told to help with baggage detail for the whole battalion. The

trailer must have been about 100 feet long with enough duffel bags to fill a warehouse. It took two hours
to unload everything, even with 30 people helping. When we finished, we were taken to our platoon
location—an empty warehouse filled with cots. It stank, it was cramped, and everyone snored. Infantry
life wasn’t glamorous.
CHAPTER 5: READINESS TRAINING
Our platoon was scouting a village, slowly creeping along the road, looking for signs of danger.
“STOP!” I yelled. “Stop the truck now!”
“What’s going on?” said the truck commander, SSG Smith.
“There’s a suspicious-looking window that’s perfect for a sniper’s nest.”
“Ka-mo-ra, be quiet. You don’t know anything.”
We continued driving. As the lead gunner, I should have relayed a message to the other trucks to
stay vigilant, but I was just a private and didn’t have the confidence. Still, I kept my .50 caliber machine
gun pointed directly at that sketchy second-story window as our convoy moved forward.
Suddenly our radio blared, “Contact! Enemy fire! One gunner down! We need a medic!”
That medic, Doc Moore, was riding with us. Everyone in the truck but me and the driver
dismounted to escort him to the rear of the convoy. Suddenly Doc started running toward the front of
the convoy. Our team leader grabbed him.
“DOC! We’re moving to the back of the convoy, not pushing forward.”
Doc ran toward the back of the convoy, then raised his rifle and started shooting at the
suspected sniper nest. The team leader was furious and grabbed him again.
“DOC! You are not infantry! If you die, who would take care of the wounded? Your first priority is
to save the wounded. Leave the shooting to us!”
The wounded in this case was another gunner. One of the cadres assigned to the training
exercise deemed that he was in serious condition and needed to be immediately evacuated with an air
CASEVAC. After we suppressed fire and got out of the danger zone, the platoon leader and platoon
sergeant both got the area prepped for pickup. Once the helicopter arrived, both the medic and gunner
were loaded and flown to the nearest hospital.
If you couldn’t tell yet, this was just the exercise meant to test our abilities and equipment. After
it was over, the cadres evaluated the entire platoon on our leadership skills, execution, and overall
reaction. They concluded that the communication between leaders and gunners was non-existent, that
the medic was too slow to arrive to the casualty, and that no one had called out the suspicious-looking
window from the second floor. When I heard that, I looked directly at SSG Smith. He didn’t make eye
contact. Thank goodness this was just training, or we’d all be injured or dead. It was a good learning
experience for both leaders and Joes.
Besides being a gunner, I was also one of the platoon's Squad Automatic Weapon (SAW) soldiers
during dismounted missions. I carried an M249 with a busted pin lock mechanism for the buttstock.
While I was cleaning my M50, someone from another team who needed an extra M249 asked if they
could use mine for their exercise. Not thinking about the faulty pin lock, I handed him my weapon. The
M249 has a strong spring coil and could injure or even kill you if the pin fell out. When I realized I hadn’t
told the other soldier about the busted pin, all I could do was hope he didn’t get hurt. After about an
hour, he found me again and told me about the loose pin. I apologized for forgetting to tell him. He
explained he had let my team leader know about it, which I understood.
I saw SPC Biziorek started running toward me.
“KAMOHARA! DO PUSHUPS NOW! No—grab your full kit and wait for me outside. NOW!”
I grabbed my kit and ran outside as fast as I could. I could see Biziorek speaking with the
specialist that borrowed my gun. I waited in that humid, hot, night for what felt like a lifetime. Suddenly
SPC Biziorek ran back up to me and started barking orders.

“You need to communicate shit like this, private! This is what could get us killed in Afghanistan!
Anything that could lead to a potential issue can be life threatening. Small details are what makes the
difference between life or death!”
After getting smoked for an hour doing low crawls, running up and down hills, and holding a stick
above my head, I had to shout to everyone, “I’m Joe, Joe the Duck, and I am all fucked up!” Then I had to
pull security until 3 a.m. When I woke up at 7 the next morning, all I could think about was how many
pushups I’d have to do for my mistake.
After a long month of training, getting smoked, and endless nights of pulling security, we got
ready to head back home. The entire platoon smelled like a wet gym sock, since the Ft. Polk laundry
contractor didn’t seem to be able to get stains out. They didn’t use any nice-smelling detergent either.
When we got back to Ft. Campbell, all we wanted to do was to go home, shower, eat, and rest. When all
our weapons, personnel, and sensitive items were accounted for, we were released to go home.
My buddy Paul didn’t have a ride, so I drove him home. On my way back to base, a police officer
pulled me over for driving 70 mph on a 60 mph road. The Guam driver’s license wasn’t valid in the
States, so he wrote me a ticket stating that I was driving without a license. I told him I just came back
from Ft. Polk after a month of training and that I smelled like shit. He didn’t let it slide. I was too tired,
too stinky, and too hungry to care.
The next Monday, I told SPC Biziorek that I had gotten a ticket for speeding and braced for him to
yell at me. Instead, he calmly said, “It’s okay, dude—no one is perfect. Plus, you offered to drop off Paul
when no one else was willing, so I understand where you were coming from. Let me just speak with the
PSG and see what he wants to do at this point.”
“Roger that, Specialist!” I said.
Biziorek left and came back. “The platoon sergeant said that you’re okay to take the day off, so
you can go to court and square this away. Just be more careful next time.”
“Roger that, Specialist!”
About 15 minutes later, SSG Smith arrived and asked Biziorek if there was any news. When Smith
heard that I had gotten a speeding ticket and was required to go to court, he scolded me and told me to
do pushups.
“Why the hell were you speeding, KA-MO-RA? Didn’t you see the sign? Didn’t you know that you
can’t drive faster than that? Didn’t you know that it’s illegal to drive without a license?”
I was confused. “Sergeant, I didn’t realize that using your power for corrective action on a private
who was speeding is something the Army condones. Are you telling me that you don’t speed even one
mile over the limit?”
“It's not about me, Private! Your actions reflect poorly on your duty as a soldier.”
I replied, “Tell me, Sergeant, who consistently gets the highest PT score in the company? Who
consistently surpasses everyone in a run? Who consistently tries to actively engage in classes? Who can
judge me for speeding after no one offered Paul a ride—including you?
“Get up, go get cleaned up, and get out of my face.”
He couldn’t face being wrong, and I did what any self-respecting soldier would do in the 2-506.
“CURRAHEE HOOAAHH! Airborne all the way!” Smith made me do pushups, but it was worth it
and only made me stronger.
It was now only three months until we left for Afghanistan. My job as the “veteran new guy” was
to show fresh recruits around Ft. Campbell and to explain how the company functioned as a unit. They
stared at the badges on my left chest and couldn’t fathom how I had finished two schools in such a short
time. I kept telling them that my ambitions and goals were not to stay in the infantry but to join Special
Forces. They couldn’t even process it. To them, infantry school was tough enough!
Only one month left until Afghanistan. Every minute on American soil, every minute in a
restaurant, every minute taking a shower—they were all about to end. We went through a long process
of speaking with counselors, contractors, and lawyers. I just wanted to get all the paperwork over with
and head out.

CHAPTER 6: IN THE SHIT
0500: It was a cold morning with frozen dew on the ground. The air was silent and eerie.
Everyone's family and friends knew this might be the last time to see them alive. I looked at my phone,
hoping that someone would call me before I left. No one did.
0545: We headed to the airport in buses, followed by family and friends. When we arrived at the
tarmac, I grabbed my gear and walked toward the plane, taking one last glance behind me to see if I
could spot anyone from my family. No one was there.
730: Boots off the ground. We flew from Ft. Campbell to Germany, Germany to Kyrgyzstan,
Kyrgyzstan to Bagram Air Base in Afghanistan, Bagram to Forward Operating Base (FOB) Sharana, FOB
Sharana to FOB Orgun-E, and FOB Orgun-E to FOB Curry.
Germany sold absinthe in their gift shop. Kyrgyzstan had the best goat milk in the world along
with unlimited Kit Kat, Twix, and Snickers bars. Bagram had one of the best military gyms I’d been to.
Sharana had great burgers, and Orgun-E had the best chicken caesar salad. The more we traveled into
enemy territory, the less amenities I saw on base. Imagine moving from a 5-star hotel in a big city to a
highway motel you’d never imagine spending a night in unless absolutely necessary. That’s what it was
like.
One quiet morning at Orgun-E, five Black Hawk helicopters waited to take us to FOB Curry.
Another platoon was occupying Curry at the moment and we were about to relieve them. We loaded up
and flew into the base. All of us looked like Liam Neeson from Taken: silent, calm, ready for anything. It
didn’t take long for the Taliban to realize there was a change of command. As soon as our Black Hawks
had left, a rocket exploded near the base.
“Get in the bomb shelter!” I heard someone yell. The radio contractors had been taught to get
underneath a desk or shelter during an attack. I sheltered in place and waited.
After five minutes, I heard, “Let’s go, Kamo! Get your gear on and we’re going to check it out.”
I grabbed my gear and weapon and headed outside to investigate. It was a short walk, but I was
breathing hard at 7500 feet above sea level. We saw no ambush, no more attacks, and there were no
Taliban around. They were testing us, I realized. Well, I will fight to my death! I am the infantry, follow
me! We flexed to the enemy to show them we were here to stay and fight. I knew I was “in the shit” now
and it was about to get real.
The base was located on top of a mountain surrounded by about five miles of flat land. The Army
believed that the Taliban used this area to secretly enter Afghanistan, so we wanted to make sure that no
enemies could sneak in or out of the country by occupying the high ground. We lived in a two-story
building with six rooms per floor and 3-4 people per room (not including squad leaders, PSG, and PL).
Downstairs were the medic areas, a couple civilian contractors in charge of radio equipment, and a small
little shop that locals had set up for us to purchase things. It was a small base, but it functioned well.
After a couple of weeks, our platoon was a well-oiled machine, but we didn’t have enough
manpower to be fully operational. The Black Hawks brought five new recruits from FOB Sharana who
looked like they were going to piss themselves. All the privates tried to welcome them and make them
feel like they were our teammates, but the PSG had other plans. He made them do pushups to show
them who was boss.
Two of the five were a mental and emotional risk, crying that they didn’t want to die. The PSG
and PL took the first opportunity to send them back. It was a bad situation, but if we had kept them,
their behavior might have affected the other soldiers. Our presence was established within the area, and
everyone knew that Americans were not afraid to fight.
One day we were on a mission to meet with a village leader to discuss any problems with the
Taliban, and what the ANA, the Afghan National Army, whom we worked with, could do to help. This
village was south of base and we were briefed on its location the day before. However, because our PL

was eager to get his combat infantry badge, he ended up sending us further south than we were
supposed to.
“Keep going further,” the radio crackled again and again.
As we slowly drove along, the land around us was incredibly, unusually clean—no trash on the
ground, no loose animals, no animal droppings anymore. My gut was telling me something bad was
about to happen.
We stopped at a bazaar, also very clean, and two men suddenly started running toward an open
field. One broke off and ducked behind a building, poking his head out.
“STOP!” I told the driver. I knew the man behind the building was likely to throw a grenade in my
turret. When the man saw we had stopped, he abandoned his post and ran after his comrade. Our
convoy of six trucks split into two teams. Two trucks followed the first man, two followed the second
man, and two pulled overall security.
My truck was going 30 mph after the first guy. Suddenly I saw a huge dip ahead and told the
driver to slow down. When the guy we were chasing heard us slowing down, he immediately turned and
started shooting at us. I ducked and my squad leader told me to get an M4 and return fire as soon as the
guy stopped.
When I heard the shooting stop, I grabbed my gun, stabilized the turret handle with the back of
my knee, looked down the scope, and shot five rounds into the guy’s body. After the fifth round, he
started shooting back. I ducked, waited for him to stop, and sunk another five rounds into his body until
he collapsed. Our truck stopped and pulled security for a potential ambush while the other trucks
continued after the second guy. Soon the radio announced that he had hid inside a caravan tent.
All the trucks stopped, and we established full 360-degree security. My squad and team leaders
dismounted, subdued the guy I’d taken down, and removed his weapon. He died after about a minute of
restraint. I was in such an adrenaline rush that I didn’t realize I had just killed a man.
Once we established he was dead, everyone shifted their focus on the second guy. He was hiding
underneath a tractor that our PL had completely missed while clearing the area. Suddenly, all I heard
was AK-47 gunshots followed by radio silence.
“Oh shit, someone’s dead,” I thought.
“Watch out!” I suddenly heard on my headphones. “He’s underneath the tractor, and gasoline is
leaking!” I braced for an explosion like in the movies.
Another round of fire.
“Medic! Get over to our location NOW!” the radio crackled.
I would have bolted out of my gunner's turret and run to help my comrade, but the safety of the
team depended on us heavy weapons gunners and I stayed where I was. I watched from my truck as the
death of the second guy was confirmed. The leaders then collected any vital information and belongings.
When the truck commander came back, I asked him what had happened.
“The translator got hit with a stray bullet and it grazed his helmet,” he told me. “He’s a little bit
shook right now, but he’s physically okay. The second is dead, so we're going to assess the situation and
head back to base.”
The leaders anticipated a possible IED on the way back to base, so they decided to switch my
smaller, less reinforced truck from first to third position. When we were five miles from base, the lead
truck called the commander.
“Hey, PL, there seems to be some kind of camel shit on the road. What do you want us to do?”
“Okay, just be careful and don’t run it over,” the PL responded.
The Taliban’s signature was to pair IEDs with place markers, covering them up with something
natural like camel droppings to attack and debilitate the lead truck. This would block the rest of the
convoy, forcing it to stop. The Taliban were crafty and used the environment to their advantage as much
as they could.
My buddy started driving toward the camel poop. BOOM! There was a huge explosion and a
black cloud appeared. Everyone freaked out and prepared for an ambush. Fortunately, none came.

The truck engine was blown to smithereens but everyone inside was alive with no scratches—just
shaken from the explosion.
After 30 minutes, the extraction team arrived, then it took us about three hours to return to
base. The moment we got home, it was back to normal: take down the guns from our truck and wipe
them clean, pack our gear for the next mission, and have an extended debriefing from our leaders.
During the debriefing, everyone congratulated me on how I handled the situation and that I had a
confirmed kill under my belt. I discovered that the second gunner, PFC Cabrera, was also shooting at the
guy, but his bullets had struck the thick turret shields and metal shavings flew off that struck him in the
arms.
After the debriefing, Doc Moore, called me for a psych evaluation.
“How are you doing?” Doc asked. “Are you okay? Any changes in emotion?”
“Um, no? I think I'm okay. No changes in emotion, and I’m ready for the next mission.”
I left the medical station and contacted Young to see how he was doing. I found out he was
stationed in Haiti for disaster relief and was miserable with no running water, no A/C, and mosquitos
eating him at every step. I can’t remember if I told him that I’d killed someone. I didn’t want him to
know. I didn’t even want him to be exposed to killing or death. The memory of killing that guy still haunts
me. I remember every second of it. I tried falling asleep and forgetting it about it after talking with Young
that night, but I couldn’t. I just knew I needed to get my mind straight for the next mission or I could get
someone killed. I was 19.
BOOM! A loud noise came from downstairs. BOOM! It went again.
“What the hell, is someone slamming doors?” I wondered.
I went downstairs and found out that Adams had accidentally shot two rounds inside the medic
station from his M4 as he was conducting a weapons function. The civilian contractors worked directly
across from the medic station and could have been seriously hurt. Fortunately, there were no casualties.
A negligent discharge was a chargeable offense in the Army, but when the leaders discovered what had
happened, Adams was doing exercises for almost four hours and the whole situation was swept under
the rug. No one really heard about it, talked about it, or even thought about it for a while.
The next day, our platoon was scheduled for another mission. We were ready by 6 a.m. to depart
at 7 a.m., but we ended up waiting for the ANA who were just waking up to make breakfast. Right as we
were supposed to leave, my stomach starting hurting, and I asked to use the latrine but was denied. No
problem, I thought. It’ll be a quick mission: I can hold it for an hour.
However, 7 a.m. turned to 8 a.m., which became 9 a.m., then 10 a.m. Finally, the PL canceled the
mission. I immediately cleared my weapon, gave it to my driver, and bolted to the restroom 50 yards
away. Halfway there, I decided to fart to relieve the pressure. Bad idea. Shit leaked onto my pants and
down my legs. I got to the restroom and finished the job, thankful that no one saw me. Afterward, I went
upstairs to grab new clothes and shower.
“KAMOHARA!” shouted the staff sergeant.
“Yes, Sergeant?”
“What are you doing upstairs? Shouldn’t you be helping your driver clear out the truck?”
I hung my head in shame and silently turned around.
“What the FUCK! Did you just shit yourself?”
“Roger that, Sergeant. I couldn’t hold it in.”
“Go shower, you nasty fuck!”
From that point on, my nicknames were Poo Pants, Shards, and Liquid Boy. My squad leader now
also took me seriously whenever I felt the urge to use the restroom. On a return trip to base one day, I
told him I needed to take a dump.
“Wait, are you serious?” he said. “We’re only about a mile away! You can’t hold it?”
“No, not really.” As a gunner, I typically sat on a swing or just stood, so it was best not to have an
accident.
The truck commander radioed everyone. “Stop the convoy!”

“Why?” the PL asked.
“Kamo needs to take a shit!”
I stopped a six-truck convoy in its tracks just so I could take a dump in the middle of Afghanistan,
with everyone pulling security for me. I felt like a king.
The hardest day of my life came shortly afterward. Second, Third, and Fourth Platoons were
collaborating on a company mission together when they got in a huge firefight with the Taliban. During
that battle, SPC Peters, one of our comrades, lost his life. Shrapnel had passed through an opening in his
eye protection and killed him instantly.
Although our platoon couldn’t make it to his burial, we held a moment of silence. It was a bleak,
bitter night. War is hell, death is cruel, and killing is depressing. In the words of Shakespeare, he today
that sheds his blood with me shall be my brother. From this day to the end of the world, we in it shall be
remembered—we few, we happy few, we band of brothers.
Soon afterward, the Family Readiness Group (FRG) in the States started contacting family
members of soldiers within our company to give updates. Back in Guam, my mother received a call from
them while she was at work. The caller assured her that, regardless of anything she might hear about a
death in the company, her son was okay.
All my mother heard was “son is dead.” She suddenly dropped the phone in a panic attack and
balled up in the corner of her office. One of her coworkers was able to calm her down, then picked up
the phone, listened to the caller, and tried to explain that I was doing well and still alive. But it was no
use. My mom thought her youngest son had died.
Meanwhile, our platoon had just returned from a mission and I had some free time. I decided to
check for any new communication and suddenly discovered at least ten emails, ten Facebook messages,
and numerous missed calls.
I immediately called my mother. “Mom? Are you okay?”
“Oh my GOOOOODNESSSS! YOU’RE ALIVE!!!! They said that you had died! Did you come back
from the dead to call me?? What happened? What's going on?”
“Dead?? Who the hell told you I died? Please stop killing me in your head. I’m sure the FRG
people were talking about my friend, not me.”
She was still hesitant. “So you’re okay? You’re not injured?”
“I’m physically okay, so...yeah? I guess I’m okay.”
After letting her know numerous times that I was okay, she finally calmed down and asked me if I
wanted anything from Japan or Guam. What I wanted was my friend back.
“No,” I said.
She replied, “I love you, Hayato my son.”

I couldn’t speak. The woman who ridiculed and ignored me for 19 years was now having a life-
changing moment. I felt dead.

“I gotta go, Mom. They’re calling me for a mission brief. Bye.” Click.
CHAPTER 7: CAN’T SPELL ‘LOST’ WITHOUT ‘LT’
Our PL was a lieutenant from West Point and no actual deployment experience. He wasn’t the
dumbest LT, but he definitely wasn’t the sharpest.
One of our missions was to sneak up to a village at nighttime where Taliban were supposed to be
hiding. The march was supposed to be simple, easy, and effective enough to get the element of surprise.
Naturally, the PL broke his own mission plan and took us on mountain route that was three hours longer.
In addition to my 50 lbs. of gear, I was carrying a SAW, which was the size of a 4”x 4” wooden
post. I was struggling for good footing on the steep slopes and dying from the lack of oxygen. The LT kept
telling us to be quiet. One team leader rolled his ankle so badly that he had no movement whatsoever

and had to be carried. The stealth mission was now anything but stealthy, and the PL still wanted to
sneak his way into the village.
I was on Alpha team with my team leader, a rifleman, a sniper, and the LT. We were supposed to
be the reconnaissance team and the rest of the platoon would catch up later. However, our team leader
didn’t want to move forward without backup, so we waited. And waited. Soon, the sun started poking
out from the horizon.
“Okay! Everyone pick up your gear,” the PL announced. “We’re headed to the village.”
The team leader was surprised. “Sir, what about our backup? How come we have to go now?”
“We have to go now to get the element of surprise, and our backup is almost here. And we also
have the support of the ANA and the ANP—so are we ready to do this?”
My TL’s face showed his confusion and distrust, but we moved closer to the village. On the way,
we discovered a roofless, windowless mud hut that looked like the perfect place for Taliban to hide. The
PL ignored it and waved his hands for us to follow him.
The TL stopped him. “Sir, I am not letting you put my men at risk when we haven’t cleared that
house.”
“You have to listen to what I say, I’m your LT.”
“Sir, until we have backup and have cleared that house, I do not want another tractor incident
occurring within our platoon. If you’re willing to put our lives at risk because we didn’t clear it, then go
right ahead and kill us right now.”
The rifleman and I looked at each other and nodded. We weren’t going to budge. The PL gave in
and decided to wait. After 30 minutes, the PL overheard on the radio that one of the trucks coming had
gotten stuck in mud. It needed to be extracted before the mission could proceed. We hitched a ride from
the ANA to drive us to our trucks, but our squad leader didn’t like the idea. He told us to get off, but we
acted like we couldn’t hear him.
When we finally got to the stuck truck, the squad leader had us pull security for the diggers. At
this point, I had slept 3 hours with little to no food, trying to keep constant watch out for enemies. The
lack of sleep and food had slowed my reaction time waaaaaay down.
BOOM!! I looked above me. Black smoke. That looked kinda weird. Right?
“GET DOWN ON THE BERM!” someone screamed. I lazily looked toward the screaming. It was
my team leader. Geez, that was rude. I didn’t like being screamed at.
He continued screaming. “R...P...G!”
Huh? Something way in the back of my mind tickled. What was he talking about? After about ten
seconds I suddenly remembered: rocket propelled grenade!
I grabbed my SAW, got down on the berm, and my TL pointed where I needed to fire. We were
too exposed and needed to retreat. We ran back to the trucks in an S-pattern like our lives depended on
it. I heard something go “buzz” next to my head.
We reached the safety of the trucks and I asked my TL about the buzzing noise.
“That was a bullet! If you’d moved one step to the left or right, you would have been hit.”
“Holy SHIT. And that black smoke?”
“Probably an RPG that exploded just above your head. Someone must have been praying for
you. If it had been a bit lower, you would have been blown to smithereens.”
I felt like Owen Wilson from Shanghai Noon where he dodged every bullet shot at him. I also felt
like I’d just gotten off a rollercoaster and realized my butt was clenched so tight it could cut the end off a
cigar. Still, no casualties, no death, and no blood spilled: in my book, that was a win.
After six months of new experiences and challenges, our platoon was sent off to another
location within the Paktya province: the 5th Afghan Border Police (ABP) compound. We shared the base
with the Afghanis and focused more on winning hearts and minds rather than seeking thrills and frills.
There were fewer mounted missions and more dismounted missions compared to what we did at FOB
Curry, and a lot more mountainous areas to get through.

Each of the two squads in our platoon would alternate missions so that no one would get too
mentally or physically fatigued, but the mortar carrier went on every mission due to the firepower of the
weapon. The equipment was very heavy, and only a few soldiers were cross-trained to use it. Guess who
ranked lowest and had to carry it? Me.
I was getting really tired of this. Leaders should set the standard of drive and tenacity for their
privates, not the other way around. I’d gone on more missions than my platoon sergeant, squad leaders,
and the team leaders. I carried the heaviest equipment and moved faster than half of the squad
members, and I knew how to use every piece of equipment. How could I respect a leader if he couldn’t
do half of what I did? How could he call himself an effective decision-maker if he couldn’t clear an M2?
How could he even call himself an effective soldier? I asked myself these questions every time I didn’t
see the platoon sergeant joining us on a mission, or when squad leaders refused to take a class with
lower-ranking privates.
One day, First and Second Platoons joined forces to clear out a village. The ground was blanketed
with snow and First Platoon took the high ground to gain a tactical advantage. I sank hip-deep into snow
with every step since my mortar pack was so heavy.
“Come on Kamohara, hurry up!” someone yelled.
I replied, “What the hell do you think I’m doing, sipping Mai Tais and chilling at the beach? Can’t
you see that I get dragged along with three feet of snow every step I take?”
“Kamohara, shut the hell up and go up these damn hills,” my TL said.
“Roger that.”
I wanted to smack them all. If I saw someone struggling, I’d rather help them get to the top than
to watch them suffer. A little bit of empathy would have gone a long way. My rucksack weighed 60 lbs.
while every leader carried about 50 lbs. That ten pounds makes a huge difference when I was going on
two or three missions a week in the mountains.
In order to provide overwatch for the Second Platoon, we had to climb a particular mountain
nicknamed “Mt. Motherfucker” that required strong willpower, strong lungs, and a positive attitude to
summit. Soldiers would pass out due to its seemingly never-ending climb. You’d have to take a break
with your hands on your knees, your head down, and couldn't help but say, “Motherfucker!” Leaders
who barely went on missions would either get altitude sickness or hallucinate due to the thin air. I’d just
grin at them and ask, “You okay there, Serrrrrrgeant?” Pissing them off allowed them to get their minds
off the situation. One of my friends was about to summit and rested his rucksack on a ledge of the
mountain to take a break and congratulate himself. The next thing we saw was his bag rolling downhill,
halfway down the mountain. His face lost all color as he realized he’d have to climb the whole mountain
again.
Once we got high enough for an overwatch, we radioed the other platoon and made sure
nothing fishy would happen to them during their operations. After the mission ended and we headed
back to base, one of the team leaders wanted to see how heavy my rucksack was. He couldn’t even lift it
with one hand.
“Kamohara, what in the serious fuck?” he said. “You carry this heavy-ass piece of shit and you’re
okay with climbing mountains?”
“Sergeant, do I really have a choice?” I replied. “Plus, y’all are just pussies that can't handle
weight. I'll be the big boy and do the heavy lifting for you pansies.”
“DO PUSHUPS!”
“HOOAAHH!” I exclaimed. “Anything to make me stronger gets me motivated! I’m motivated,
motivated, motivated! Dedicated, dedicated, dedicated! Tell me, Sergeant: can you out-PT me? Can you
climb a mountain faster than me? Can you make effective decisions when you’re freaking because of the
altitude?”
“Kamohara, get up and get out of my face.”

Back at the base, the condenser on our refrigerated Conex box had broken, and all the food
rotted overnight. HQ told us it would be three weeks for a new one to arrive. We had some self-stable
rations, but the only real food option for us was teriyaki chicken. For three weeks, breakfast, lunch, and
dinner was teriyaki chicken. Fortunately, my mom had sent some ramen noodles and my brother had
sent a coil burner, cooking pot, and rice. They boosted my morale, but I still to this day cannot eat
anything that tastes like teriyaki.
One Monday morning, rumor spread that I was to be promoted to Specialist that Friday and
become a team leader. Everyone felt like I deserved it for going up and down mountains, treating new
privates like my own soldiers, and providing effective knowledge and application of infantry tactics. They
thought it was a no-brainer.
Friday arrived and all the soldiers were rounded up in the gym. The PSG called up three people. I
wasn’t among them. The first man was PV2 Adams, the man who had accidentally discharged his
weapon at the FOB Curry medic station. The PSG explained that Adams was getting promoted to
Specialist due to “the amazing work, dedication to his job, and the effectiveness of completing his tasks.”
I was full of hot rage. After formation ended, my team leader had to calm me down as I worked
out my anger in the gym. Hot tears ran down my face.
“Specialist Modert, I’ve given everything to this platoon,” I cried. “I’ve sacrificed a lot, I’ve never
once complained about my position, and I’ve shown nothing but excellent performance throughout
Afghanistan. So why the fuck is someone like Adams—who did fuck up, who barely helped out others
when they needed it, and who only gave a shit about himself after he’d fucked up—getting promoted?”
Modert replied, “The team leaders and squad leaders all agree that you should be the one
getting promoted, not Adams, for those very reasons. But because he worked so closely to the first
sergeant—who approves promotions—it was out of our hands. If we had known more in advance before
the paper had been approved, we would have fought for you.”
“Fuck this bullshit,” I spat. “I gotta work this out.”
Modert nodded. “Kamohara, just fight through this one last mission, then you and I are both out
on leave. Forget about this bullshit. I promise that I’ll fight to get you promoted when we come back.”
That was a nice offer, but I felt so cheated that I just didn’t care.
We finished the next mission and I decided to go back to Guam on leave. On the way home, we
stopped at a base in Kuwait which had different types of fast food, a huge PX, and a USO where we could
play video games. Modert and I both ordered food from Pizza Hut without realizing our stomachs were
used to meal rations. It did not go well.
When I arrived in Guam, I tried to rest, but all I could think about were my brothers in arms
overseas. After a couple of weeks, it was time for me to return to Afghanistan. It took 7-10 days to fly all
the way back to the 5th ABP. As soon as I walked into my room, one of the team leaders came up to me.
“Hey Kamo, look what I got,” he said, flashing something metal in his hand.
“What the hell is that?”
“It's a shuriken—a shooting star,” he said.
“Wait, like a real shooting star?” I asked.
He turned and threw it at the barracks target board where it stuck with a THWACK. Shortly
afterward, I was leaving a room and a shuriken whizzed right in front of my face. I ran up to him and told
him I was confiscating his shurikens. He hadn’t even told anyone he’d be throwing them!
Time at the base passed as usual and the end of our deployment drew steadily closer. We were
all excited to return home for good. Then one day, we were told to complete a very risky mission just two
weeks before going home. None of the privates understood why. Two weeks?! Did we really need more
casualties right before we left? We questioned our commander about it.
“It’s our job to go out and conduct this mission,” the PSG explained. “Everyone needs to suck it
up and do their job. Stop pouting and get your backpack set up.” Everyone’s faces were colorless and
silent.
As I started to go prepare my things, I overheard the PSG on the phone with his wife.

“Hey honey,” he said. “We have one more mission left before we head back home. I hope you
know that I'll do anything necessary to get back home alive and unscathed, even if it means using one of
the privates as a human body shield so I can go home.”
I wanted to grab my rifle right there and shoot his brains out. You don’t ever say something like
that as a joke, especially when you’re the highest-ranking enlisted non-commissioned officer. I returned
to barracks and shared what I’d overheard. Everyone was pissed off and there could have been mutiny.
However, at this point, we just wanted to be finished with Afghanistan, so all the privates, team leaders,
and squad leaders of 1st Platoon, 2-506 made a pact to work together one last time. Afterwards, the PSG
would no longer be our leader—just a dude with some rank on his chest.
This final mission was another collaboration of First and Second Platoon. We were trying to win
the hearts and minds of a city about 10 miles away from base. Our platoon would provide overwatch
from the mountains as we had in the past. We took our position and scanned below for threats while
waiting for Second Platoon to arrive below.
Suddenly, our PSG spotted an enemy with an RPG down in the fields along with a couple of
dudes with AK-47s. It was going to be an ambush! Every weapon we had was out of range, so we tried to
intercept the Taliban before Second Platoon drove into the ambush.
It was too late. A rocket hit one of the trucks in the fields below and the fight began. I told the
PSG I could grab my mortar with a couple rounds to give some suppressive fire, thinking it could give
enough coverage for them to regroup. The PSG told me that I’d be committing suicide if I got in range of
their AK-47s. Plus, if we exposed ourselves, we didn’t have enough manpower to stop an attack.
Bullets were flying left and right, and all we could do was watch our brothers suffer. I still wish I
would have gone rogue to try and help, but the PSG was right—if we exposed our location, we could
have been ambushed from above us on the mountain.
Suddenly we heard the company commander on the radio asking for a head count. Everyone had
been given a call sign to use instead of a name so that the Taliban wouldn’t immediately be able to
identify us over the radio.
“I heard everyone except Three Bravo,” the commander said. “Has anyone seen or heard from
Three Bravo?” Silence.
My heart sank. Three Bravo, Sgt. Marcus R. Brewer, was a good friend of mine. We used to talk
about our life stories, our families, and World of Warcraft together. No one saw exactly what had
happened to him, but we knew that he would have radioed back when he was called. Two hours after
the first attack, the company commander declared DUSTWUN (duty status—whereabouts unknown) for
Sgt. Brewer.
We finally received backup from Special Forces, Heavy Artillery, and a couple of A-10 airplanes,
and the shooting stopped. The search for Brewer began and continued into the night. As I was trying to
sleep, I saw Brewer’s team member, Pfc. Hodges, searching for his comrade. He was still searching when
I pulled security in daylight. It took eight hours and the combined effort of Special Forces and the 2nd
Platoon to finally locate Brewer’s body. It was riddled with bullet holes around his vest. When we got
back to base, the PSG allowed us to take showers and rest for about ten hours before we had to pull
security. I took a hot shower and scrubbed my body, watching black and brown gunk come off. I kept
scrubbing, again and again, trying to wash away the pain of losing my brothers. It was a tough year for
everyone in Whiskey Company to lose both SPC Peters and SGT Brewer. After the shower, I felt clean
outside but dead inside.
A few of us who had gone on that mission were allowed to attend Brewer’s funeral before the
Army shipped his body back to the States. SSG Reynolds gave the eulogy. Reynolds was our field observer
at FOB Curry and always had a happy, cheerful personality, but he broke down and cried as he gave the
eulogy. When I walked up to Brewer’s casket and saw his photo for the last time, I couldn’t cry. I didn’t
hurt. I felt blank. I saluted him as a man and the sacrifice he provided so that First and Second Platoon
survived. We had just found out that, before his death, Brewer provided some of the grid coordinates to

the A-10 pilots, enabling a faster, more efficient ground attack. When the bugle started playing “Taps”
and the flag was lowered, I saluted to the skies, hoping he was watching from heaven.
CHAPTER 8: SHOULD I STAY OR SHOULD I GO?
After losing two brothers in arms and dealing with the stress of poor leadership and endless
missions, I was glad to leave Afghanistan for good. I used to think I would return as a better man, but I
was coming home with blood on my hands, the fear of rockets, and a dead feeling inside.
Before we left for the States, we watched a video of our sergeant major who gave us a few words
of encouragement while chewing a giant wad of tobacco.
“Hey everyone, I just want to thank you for all the hard work you’ve accomplished. We are finally
headed back home to Ft. Campbell, but I want you to remember something: nobody owes you anything.
Just because you’ve deployed, don't be thinking that you’re a hero. We're not heroes, we are soldiers—
nothing more.” Then he grabbed his spit bottle, spat into the cup, and proceeded to talk about what it
would look like when we got home.
Flying back to Ft. Campbell was bittersweet. I knew there was no one there to welcome me
home, so I called my ex-girlfriend and told her I’d be willing to fight for her, no matter what, if she’d only
fly out and be there waiting for me. I promised her everything in the past would disappear if I could just
see her.
As I stood in formation at Ft. Campbell, I felt a tap on my shoulder. Excitedly, I turned around. It
was my team leader. My heart sank and I started search around for my ex’s face in the crowd. Maybe she
was lost in the jumble of people. Maybe she had issues getting on base? Maybe she was out in the
parking lot?! I waited for as long as I could, but she never came. Why would she want to associate herself
with me anyway? I felt like a broken toy that no one wanted to play with.
We did a proper head count when everyone was back on company grounds, then we were
dismissed for the weekend. I was handed the keys to the barracks and immediately ran upstairs, dropped
my gear, and sat on the floor, thinking: no more bullets. No more rockets. No more IEDS.
One of my buddies knocked on my door. “Hey, do you want to grab some food before
formation?” he asked.
“Hell yeah!” I said. “Let’s go get some teriyaki chicken!” We looked at each other, gagged, and
laughed our butts off.
At this point, I had about five months left in my contract with the Army. A lot of things had
changed: I had a new PSG, a new PL, new team leaders and squad leaders, and I had been promoted to
Specialist. I was now a team leader myself in charge of a lot of old and new privates.
One of these new recruits, PFC Houkema, left a huge impression in my life. He was from Ft.
Benning and had spent some time in garrison but had never deployed overseas. He was an odd but fun
character who reminded me of myself as a young kid. He wanted to join Special Forces, Ranger School,
and every other school the Army offered, just like me. For these reasons, I did not want him to get
screwed by his leaders like I did. I wanted to be his ladder for success. I’d never seen how to get a Special
Forces packet ready, but I told Houkema that if he did all the paperwork and set himself up for success,
I’d cover him for anything that had to be done at the company.
“Where’s Houkema?” my squad leader asked me one day.
“He’s not here,” I said.
“Well then, where the hell is he? He needs to clean the latrines!”
“Don’t worry about my guy,” I responded. “If the latrine needs to get cleaned, I’d be glad to do it
for him.”
The squad leader just shook his head and put me in charge of latrines.
Even with the opportunity to be a positive influence in the life of Houkema and others as a
leader, it was exhausting to constantly battle the opposing leadership styles of the other leaders around
me who preferred to flex their rank to get things done. My style was to stand back, listen, then

command. This really riled them up, and I ultimately decided it was not worth re-enlisting. As I said in
the beginning, first impressions last a long time, and the poor leadership I’d been under since the
beginning of my military career made the choice clear, regardless of the recent changes that had
happened within the company.
Besides, not all of those changes had been good. For example, my new platoon sergeant had
come from another platoon in Whiskey Company. He knew who I was, but because he was from another
platoon, he had only heard bad things and saw me getting smoked a lot. From his perspective, I was not
fit to be a team leader. He removed me from the position and replaced me with one of his men who had
joined him from the other platoon. Unfortunately, the replacement knew nothing about being a
mounted gunner. He’d only got promoted because he would kiss ass. I asked him how to disassemble
and properly maintain an M2 and questioned him about its specifications.
“I don’t know, and I don’t need to know,” he said. “I’m a truck commander and that information
is useless to me during a firefight.”
“You do need to know!” I explained. “If you understand the specifications, you can do a proper
estimation to provide a more effective attack. When every bullet counts, don’t you want to minimize the
amount of human error?”
“Do pushups!” he retorted.
“No,” I said, “unless you can validate to me that the specifications do not matter. I refuse to see
you out as a leader. If you feel like I’m stepping in your boundaries, please contact the squad leader, and
let's get his opinion.”
I was annoyed that this arrogant, ignorant—possibly stupid—person could be leading me into
battle. He contacted the squad leader, Sgt. Luna, who arrived ten minutes later.
“Kamohara what seems to be the issue?” he asked.
“Sergeant,” I said, “how do you expect me to take command from someone who knows less than
I do and refuses to believe that the most effective and powerful weapon isn’t important for us as a
mounted infantry unit?”
“Well, Kamohara, why do you question his ability to lead?”
“Because, Sergeant,” I continued, “someone who’s ignorant enough to brush off vital information
could kill you in the line of battle.” I could describe more of the conversation, but I was speaking to a
wall. I ended the conversation and walked off to do my janitorial duties.
After having to deal with more and more people like Luna, I went to a club in Nashville to drown
myself in alcohol. The next morning, I was nursing a hangover when someone started banging on the
door like a wild person.
“Kamo, it’s Jay!” a voice shouted. “Open up, man, I got something to tell you!”
I rolled out of bed and opened the door.
“Did you hear?” Jay asked.
“Did I hear what?!” I was starting to get pissed.
“Hottie died last night!”
“What the fuck,” I said. “Don’t kid around about that, dude. That’s not even remotely funny.”
Ray Hostetler, or “Hottie,” was a friend of mine from Afghanistan. Jay showed me a text from one
of Hottie's roommates showing that the cops had found Hottie’s vehicle on the side of the road with his
body inside. He’d been murdered by two gang recruits for an initiated rite. I was in shock. I couldn’t
believe it. Hottie had survived IEDs, bullets, and rockets in Afghanistan just to lose his life to two kids? It
didn’t make sense. I was confused and angry that I had lost another brother.
Hottie’s funeral was filled with people who had known and loved him. As I listened to the
speakers, I remembered every time he and I had spoken and every time we had trained together. When
the funeral ended, I walked toward Hottie’s photo for a farewell and felt something wet running down
my face. I’d forgotten what tears felt like. I stripped my deployment patch from my right shoulder and
saluted. I felt like I had failed him as a friend and soldier for not being there to stop the assholes who had
shot him. I wished I could have taken his place.

CHAPTER 9: ON THE EDGE
Ever since I left Afghanistan, my body wasn’t right. I had constant pain in my knees, constant

back spasms, and constant ringing in my ears. Whenever I got sick or injured, I was required to get pre-
screened by the medics. These weren’t doctors but more like glorified nurses. They misdiagnosed me

numerous times and usually just prescribed 800mg ibuprofen tablets.
Even the physician's assistant, or PA, gave me the same story. During one visit, I was supposed to
get a profile—a doctor’s note—from him stating that I was to do only light duty activities, but he refused
to sign it, thinking I was faking the pain.
“Stop malingering and get back to work,” he said. “Here’s an ibuprofen. Remember, you’re the
one that chose to become infantry. These are things that come with the job.”
My knee was swollen, my back hurt like hell, and I couldn’t hear out of my left ear. I wasn’t
allowed to see a specialist, to get a second opinion, or even to see an outside practitioner for a
consultation. I had to go through the PA.
I looked at him, desperately wanting to say, “Sir, if you have no intentions of taking me seriously
as a patient, why are you in this field?” But I couldn’t. If you’re a just a specialist, you don’t want to defy
an officer unless you’re willing to fight for the long haul, as I soon saw.
We had just received a brand-new platoon leader who had literally graduated from West Point
the previous week. This was his first time being exposed to a real platoon, and the first thing he did as
commander was to lead us all in a PT run. He debriefed everyone and told us we’d be doing a free run to
a specific location.
As a previous cross-country runner, I hated running in formation. Lyons, the slowest guy was
usually placed in front, and the everyone else would have to match his speed. My bad knees would swell
up like softballs on these slow runs, since the shorter stride usually added more stress to my body.
Moreover, being in the middle felt like you were trapped in a can of sardines. Every time Lyons slowed
down, everyone behind him would bump into each other. I chose to be the last person in formation.
The PL and SGT Luna shouted, “Let’s go Lyons! Run faster! You’re slowing down the whole
formation! Pick up your legs! Stride faster!”
Everyone was pissed at the PL and SGT Luna for putting Lyons at the front. How could they
expect him to go faster when he clearly met his physical limitations? It was ludicrous to expect results
from just one run. The PL and PSG said that we needed to push each other to become better soldiers,
but we had been doing that for months! We all knew that Lyons had always been terrible at PT. We’d
even tried to train him, but he didn’t want to change. The new PL didn’t know any of this because he
didn’t bother speaking with us beforehand. However, he had take some great initiative to boost morale,
and he did know half the team’s last names by heart, so we tried to give him the benefit of the doubt.
During the run, my bad knees eventually caused me to fall out of formation.
“Hey, you!” the PL shouted. “Get in formation now!”
“Sir, I can’t keep up with that run,” I said. “The whole stopping and going isn’t helping my body.”
“I don’t care,” he replied. “Get up to the front or else you’re going to get in trouble when we get
back!”
“Sir, I know you have that authority,” I said, “but I have a bad knee, and adding more stress
won't heal it any faster.”
“KAMOHARA! Get in formation now!” shouted Sgt. Luna.
“Sergeant, give me and Lyons a PT test,” I said, “and let's see who needs the help more. I can’t
continue this run because of my knee.” It just didn’t make sense for me to push my body to the limit if I
wasn’t going to deploy. I had little over two months left in the military.
By this time, three other people had also fallen out of formation for the same reason. Eventually,
the argument ended and the four of us that fell out decided to walk back while the rest of the platoon
kept running.

Suddenly our company commander walked up behind us.
“All four of you come see me at company grounds before PT ends,” he said.
“Roger that, sir,” we said in unison, looking nervously at each other.
At company grounds, the commander pulled the four us in formation and asked what had
happened. We explained that our bodies simply couldn’t handle the run.
“Well, gentlemen, it doesn’t matter if you couldn't handle the pain. You four showed disrespect,
insubordination, and signs of munity towards the new PL. Those actions are not permitted on my
company grounds.”
I said, “Sir, our knees were in such pain that if we had pushed ourselves throughout the run,
we’d have to pay consequences in the future.”
“Do you have a profile from the PA?” he asked.
“No, sir. None of us do.”
“Then those pains don't exist and you’re all just malingering. All four of you are in review for
UCMJ, Article 15.”
Article 15 was a form of non-judicial punishment that commanders used to promote good order
and discipline without going to a trial by court-martial. Everything was internal with the option to appeal
the ruling and have an actual court case if desired. I had to decide whether to fight this case and take it
to court-martial, or to keep it at the company-grade level with the commander as the judge.
To help make my decision, I spoke with a JAG officer who with advised me to take the second
option. If I chose a court-martial, he explained, I’d have to sign a new Army contract for another entire
year in order to have enough time for the process to be resolved. He gave me his number, told me to
think about my decision, and said he would represent me if I chose the first option.
I thought about it long and hard. At this point, I hated everyone in the company and what they
represented, but I also had only two months left before leaving it all behind. There was no way I was
going to stay another year. I decided to take my chances with the commander.
When the time came to be adjudicated, I entered the commander’s office and saluted him. He
instructed me to be held at the position of attention, then proceeded to state the purpose of the
meeting and what personal action I was being disciplined for.
“Specialist Kamohara,” he added, “do you have any words to add regarding your Article 15, and
why you should be considered not guilty for these charges?”
“Yes sir,” I responded. “I have been a model soldier from the moment I entered the unit. I’ve
graduated in the top five individuals of Air Assault School and finished it without injury. I’ve been
recommended by numerous team leaders to attend the Soldier of the Month Board, and have deployed
with our unit with no altercations. I believe I’ve been an excellent soldier throughout my career, sir. I was
just misunderstood in the heat of the moment, sir.”
“I didn’t know you graduated top five in Air Assault,” the CO replied. “I don’t have anything to
add. Does my jury have anything to say?”
“Nothing to add,” said the first sergeant.
“Nothing to add,” echoed the platoon sergeant.
“Yes, sir.” the platoon leader said. “I believe Specialist Kamohara should get a field-grade Article
15 and receive the maximum punishment of reduced rank to E-1, half of basic pay for two months, extra
duty for 45 days, and restriction to base for 45 days.”
This asshole is really out to get me, I thought. The commander proceeded to find me guilty of
insubordination and gave me a company-grade Article 15 with a punishment of 14 days of extra duty and
14 days of restriction to base.
When we were dismissed, the platoon sergeant privately drew me aside. He had recently
replaced the former PSG who’d removed me from my team leader position. I had not spoken to this PSG
much, but he seemed like the fatherly type.

“You doing okay?” he asked. “I just want you to know that the PL is new and doesn’t know a lick
about what you’ve accomplished. He was just upset because he saw one of his senior Joes acting
insubordinate to his leading officer. I believe he was a bit biased toward your decision.”
I said, “It is what it is, Sergeant. I’ve got about a month left in this company, and I honestly don’t
care what happens to him. I’m sure he doesn’t care what happens to me. But I’ll promise you this—if he
even looks at me in the wrong way, I hope he knows I’m not afraid to lose it right now. You are the only
person who’s stopping me from punching him in the face. I’ll accept my punishment and move forward. I
know you’re a great leader, and I hope that you can mold him into a great leader one day. If he keeps this
attitude up, I guarantee someone’s going to fight him one day.”
“I know,” the PSG replied. “I apologize on his behalf.”
We shook hands. As I walked away, the PL asked me inside his office. “Is this going to be an issue,
Kamohara?” he asked.
“HOOAAHH! No, sir! I’m motivated, motivated, motivated—dedicated, dedicated, dedicated!”
“That’s all you have to say?”
“HOOAAHH! I haven’t been this motivated since jumping out of airplanes, sir!”
“Get out and go away,” he said.
“HOOAAHH! Won’t stop, can’t stop, sir! Army Infantry all the way! HOOAAHH!” I bolted
downstairs back to company grounds as he stared angrily from above.
After finishing my Article 15 punishment, I had just one month left before my contract ended.
Typically, a soldier is given three months to transition to civilian life, but I had less than a month, due in
part to my PL wanting to drag my process out so I would be screwed when I left the Army.
One day, Sgt. Luna called my name out for me to attend a field training exercise. I couldn’t
believe it. “Sergeant,” I said, “did I hear that right? I’m going out to the field? I have one month left, and
you guys haven’t even given me the opportunity to transition out. How come other people got three
months and I haven’t even started? I need to take care of myself right now, not train!”
“Kamohara, this was the list provided by our platoon leader. If you have a problem with him then
you can take it up with him.”
“Roger that, Sergeant. Can you set me up with a time I can talk to him?”
“No, Kamohara. This is the final roster, and you’re going whether you like it or not.”
I said, “No problem, Sergeant. I hope you know that during this field exercise they’re gonna hand
off live ammunition. Should I put the barrel down my throat and shoot my brains out in front of your
face, I want you to know that you caused me to take such drastic measures.”
Luna laughed, but he knew better than to take a suicide threat lightly. He called the PSG who
walked me upstairs into the office he shared with the PL. I stepped inside and said, “Sergeant, I refuse to
speak with the PL in the same room.” The PSG turned and told the PL to leave immediately, which he did.
I sat down and the PSG turned to me.
“What's going on, man?” he asked. “What’s this talk about killing yourself in the field?”
I said, “Sergeant, this is bullshit. Anyone else would get three months to transition out. I don’t
have a résumé ready, I don’t have a place to stay, and I don’t even have a job lined up. I haven’t had the
time to do any of it when I keep getting sucked into these training sessions!”
“I understand that it’s not fair,” he acknowledged. “You’re correct. But we need you for this one
last mission—no, I need you for this one last mission. Afterwards, I promise to make sure no one messes
with your transition.”
“What about the PL?” I asked. “If I just hear his voice I wanna go berserk.”
He said, “Don’t worry about the PL. You’re going to be my driver, and no one is to speak to you
unless they speak to me first.”
“Fuuuuck,” I breathed. “If you can promise me that, then I’ll go on this one last mission—but I
swear to God, Sergeant, don’t break your word.”
“I promise.”
As I left the office, the PL asked me if everything was okay.

“All day every day! Motivated, motivated, motivated—dedicated, dedicated, dedicated, sir!
Currahee stands alone! HOOAAHH!”
My platoon sergeant kept his word. No one gave me any directions except for him. I think he
knew I was serious about killing myself and how I was on the edge of breaking. I got to know him as a
man, as a leader, and as someone I looked up to.
“Hey Sergeant,” I said, “if you had been here as my PSG right after deployment, I would have
totally re-enlisted. I would have been glad to fight and die for you.”
There was a moment of silence. “Thanks, Kamohara. I’m just doing what I believe is the best for
my soldiers. Also, I have one favor to ask you.”
“Oh shit—what’s up, Sergeant?”
“Can you teach Robertson, the new guy, how to use the .50 cal?”
“I can,” I replied, “but you have other team leaders that can teach him too.”
“I want him to learn from the best,” he said.
“Okay, roger that, Sergeant—but I’m only doing it out of respect for you. If Robertson doesn’t
pay attention, it's not my fault if he screws up.”
“That’s fine,” he said.
At nightfall, I started training Robertson. I showed him how to properly fix his weapon, taught
him its specifications, and made him reload it with his eyes closed. He had a hard time listening to me,
and I thought of my old team leader who would just kick me on the top of my helmet and tell me to pay
attention. I was getting upset, but I didn’t want to be that way.
“Hey man,” I told Robertson. “Honestly, I don’t care if you listen to me or not. But it’ll behoove
you to pay attention because what I’m teaching you could save your life—or your buddy’s life.”
“Uhhh, okay,” he said, looking dumbfounded.
The mission for our field exercise was to defend the base from enemy forces. Robertson was to
man the .50 cal and take care of any enemies at the gate, while a batch of new privates straight from
basic training were to pull security on the guard towers. After the exercise began, one of the privates fell
asleep during their shift at the tower, so the enemy was able to grab a ladder and climb over the wall.
Robertson could have shot the enemy down with his .50 cal, but his weapon jammed, and he didn’t
know how to fix it. When the enemy reached our truck, Robertson and I both died, and the enemy took
over the .50 cal to produce mass casualties inside the base. The mission was a total failure, and the
commander was pissed.
The PSG approached me after the debrief. “Kamohara, did you teach Robertson how to clear a
malfunction?” he asked.
“Roger that, Sergeant, but he refused to listen and was not actively engaged during my personal
lesson with him.”
“Okay, thank you,” he replied. “Next time a senior gunner gives him a lesson, I’ll make sure he
listens.”
As we walked back, I suddenly realized it was the last time I would ever see those old roads of Ft.
Campbell again, and I was flooded with nostalgia. I remembered beating Kozlowski in the ruck march
competition. I remembered packing ten pounds of gummy bears in my backpack for endless days of field
exercises. I remembered buying salad from a food truck in the parking lot after truck inspection and just
drenching it with ranch dressing. I remembered all the days and nights I spent low crawling and
bounding from barracks building to barracks building. I remembered the blood, sweat, and tears I had
spent trying to survive. Leaving was bittersweet, but it was time for me to move on.
CHAPTER 10:
If you are planning to join the military, please use my personal experience in this book to make
an informed decision about your future. I joined the Army right out of high school at eighteen, thinking
that I could support my high school sweetheart when she graduated. In reality, I was asking her to spend

her senior year of high school completely alone while her boyfriend was preparing for life. That was a lot
to ask.
If you join, you’ll have to endure questionable leadership throughout your career with a variety
of different styles and methods. Even though leaders will be of a higher rank than you, they will not
always look out for you. When you do find good leadership, learn from them. Mold yourself to become
like them. Don’t let others misguide you. Follow your gut, but also let the mistakes of poor leaders guide
you to who you want to be.
If you think you’ll leave the Army unscathed with no battle scars, think again. You will have to
sacrifice anything and everything. Your body will never be the same. My knees hurt constantly, my back
aches every day, and my ears are always ringing. It comes with the job. Be prepared for anything. I have
my good days like anyone, but certain noises still freak me out, and I’ve nearly drank myself to death
during times of depression with suicidal thoughts. I still get nightmares where I shoot a man with my
bare hands, and still wonder how anyone could love a man with his hands covered in blood. War is cruel,
death is painful, and killing is not fun.
I personally hate it when people thank me for serving their country. I always thought that it was
just another job that no one wanted to do. I just raised my hand and moved forward. The food sucks, the
pay is terrible—you’d make more money in fast food—and the beds you sleep on are worse than
sleeping on the floor. You join for pride, honor, and integrity. Just like my sergeant major said: “No one
owes you shit. You're no hero, just a soldier.” The best advice I can give you is to follow your gut and
break some rules if you have to. Don’t settle—be willing to fight for what you stand for, and never let
anyone tell you differently.
This book is dedicated to SPC Peters, SGT Brewer, and SPC Hostetler for your dedication,
sacrifice, and selfless service to your country. I hope that heaven is treating you well, and hope that your
families are doing well. I’ve had the honor to call you all my brothers.
To my leaders: I hated most of you, but I've come to realize that you guys were harsh on me
because you knew I could handle more, and you pushed me to be better. SPC Biziorek, thank you for all
the late-night bullshit you dealt with from upper management, for all the nights you took me under your
wings, and most importantly for teaching me to always learn to be better than the person next to you.
SPC Modert, thank you for all your jokes, for fighting for us privates when LTs were trying to get us killed,
and for teaching me to become the best .50 cal gunner I could be. SSG Ronstadt, thank you for showing
me that even staff sergeants are humans, and for the respect you showed me when you realized how
heavy my rucksack was. I swear I did not yell at you in Japanese asking for mortar rounds during contact.
SGT Garcia, thank you for displaying your drive and willingness to be better every day. SGT Jones, thanks
for your hilarious antics and oddball theories. Finally, a big thanks goes to the SFC whose impact in my
life I remember even if I can’t remember your last name. You showed me there is still hope in the Army
and that good leaders still exist. You saved my life numerous times when I would have pulled the trigger
with the barrel down my throat.
To my peers: SPC Cabrera, you showed me that laughing is all you can do during painful times.
SPC Guerrero, thank you for being a bad-ass and coming back to support us even after getting injured in
your leg. SPC Fields, thank you for all the ping-pong matches we had at FOB Curry. SPC Henricks, thank
you for always smiling and making sure everyone was doing okay. SPC Lyons, thank you for all the times
you put up with my shit in Afghanistan. SPC Ytterock, thank you for always keeping us supplied with your
mom's pumpkin rolls. SPC Leavenworth, thank you for showing me that you can pick up any chick
without even owning a toothbrush. SPC Gonzalez, you showed tenacity and fearlessness like a meerkat.
SPC Burns, thank you for showing me a good time when it felt like the world was ending. SPC Williams,

thanks for putting up all the bullshit we dealt with during deployment. SPC Wong, my Asian brother-
from-another-mother, thank you for the rice and noodle cookouts we had. SPC Sharknas, I’m sorry for

crashing your truck in the parking lot as we were leaving the club. SPC Porter, thank you for putting up
with all the crap since the very beginning. To all those I missed, I hope you know that every one of you

help mold me into the person I am today. Without you, I would not have turned out so motivated,
persistent, and dedicated in pursuing a better life for myself.
To my supporters, family members, and friends, thank you for every care package, every word of
encouragement, and every letter that was sent to me. I will cherish those moments forever.